Screamer is an extension of Common Lisp that adds support for nondeterministic
programming.  Screamer consists of two levels.  The basic nondeterministic
level adds support for backtracking and undoable side effects.  On top of this
nondeterministic substrate, Screamer provides a comprehensive constraint
programming language in which one can formulate and solve mixed systems of
numeric and symbolic constraints.  Together, these two levels augment Common
Lisp with practically all of the functionality of both Prolog and constraint
logic programming languages such as CHiP and CLP(R).  Furthermore, Screamer is
fully integrated with Common Lisp. Screamer programs can coexist and
interoperate with other extensions to Common Lisp such as CLOS, CLIM and
Iterate.

In several ways Screamer is more efficient than other implementations of
backtracking languages.  First, Screamer code is transformed into Common Lisp
which can be compiled by the underlying Common Lisp system.  Many competing
implementations of nondeterministic Lisp are interpreters and thus are far
less efficient than Screamer.  Second, the backtracking primitives require
fairly low overhead in Screamer.  Finally, this overhead to support
backtracking is only paid for those portions of the program which use the
backtracking primitives.  Deterministic portions of user programs pass through
the Screamer-to-Common-Lisp transformation unchanged.  Since in practise, only
small portions of typical programs utilize the backtracking primitives,
Screamer can produce more efficient code than compilers for languages in which
backtracking is more pervasive.

Screamer is fairly portable across most Common Lisp implementations. It
currently runs under Genera 8.1.1 and 8.3 on Symbolics 36xx and Ivory
machines, under Lucid 4.0.2 and 4.1 on Sun SPARC machines, under Lucid 4.1 on
SGI MIPS machines, under Lucid 4.1 on HP PA machines, under Lucid 4.1 on DEC
MIPS machines, under Lucid 4.0.1 on IBM RS/6000 machines, under MCL 2.0 and
2.0p2 on Apple Macintosh machines, under Harlequin 3.0.3+ on Sun SPARC
machines, under Allegro 4.1 and 4.2 on Sun SPARC and SGI MIPS machines, under
Allegro 4.1 on DEC MIPS machines, under Poplog 14.2 on Sun SPARC machines, and
under AKCL 1.605 and 1.615 on Sun SPARC machines. It should run under any
implementation of Common Lisp which is compliant with CLtL2 and with minor
revision could be made to run under implementations compliant with CLtL1 or
dpANS.

Screamer was written by Jeffrey Mark Siskind and David Allen McAllester.
It is available by anonymous FTP from either ftp.ai.mit.edu,
ftp.cis.upenn.edu, or ftp.cs.toronto.edu as the file /pub/qobi/screamer.tar.Z.
Contact Jeffrey Mark Siskind (Qobi@CS.Toronto.EDU) for further information.
